Dynamic pg docs (#2791)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/services/dynamic-postgresql.md

---
title: Dynamic PostgreSQL
excerpt: How Dynamic PostgreSQL works
products: [cloud]
keywords: [services, create, postgresql, dynamic]
cloud_ui:
    path:
        - [services]
        - [create_services]
---

# Dynamic PostgreSQL

Dynamic PostgreSQL is a managed PostgreSQL offering on Timescale that is built 
for your production workloads. Dynamic PostgreSQL is 100% PostgreSQL with no 
alterations to the core database. It comes with Timescale's dynamic compute and 
usage-based storage, giving you the scalability of a serverless database with 
the performance and cost-effectiveness of a statically allocated DBaaS.

## Dynamic compute

> With Dynamic PostgreSQL and dynamic compute, you choose a compute range with a 
> minimum and maximum. Your database always has the minimum compute 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic compute means you choose a compute range with a 
minimum and maximum instead of a single static compute option. Your database always has the minimum compute 
```

allocated to it. As your load increases and your application demands more of 
your database, your database can use up to the maximum of your range with zero 
delay.

With dynamic compute, your database always has the effective memory 
corresponding to the maximum of the compute range. For example, in a 4 - 8 CPU
configuration, your database has 32 GB of effective memory. 

In this model, you only pay for your minimum compute, and are metered for any 

> usage above your minimum. Currently, the product has early access pricing, 
> where any usage above the minimum is free.

Reviewer: Let's pull this out into a Note.

```suggestion
usage above your minimum.

<Highlight type="note">
Dynamic PostgreSQL is currently using early access pricing, 
where any metered usage above the minimum is free.
</Highlight>
```

## Usage-based storage

Dynamic PostgreSQL comes with Timescale's usage-based storage. With usage-based 

> storage, you only pay for your storage, rather than the allocated disk. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
storage, you only pay for the storage saved on disk, rather than the amount of disk space allocated. 
```

Usage-based storage is billed hourly per gigabyte of data.

> ## Who is Dynamic PostgreSQL for?

Reviewer: This feels more like "What is Dynamic PostgresSQL for?" Not who
